

===== [82Mpsgc8cLM] How I Blew Up My Youtube Channel =====
So, how did you blow up your YouTube channel?
No, like genuinely how did you get so many &gt;&gt; 196,000 subscribers?
Seriously, what's your secret, dude?
What's my secret?
Well, I wish I could say it's all about the fancy beard, but it's not.
I spent the last 2 years trying to answer this [music] question.
I've shown you my editing process, how I write my scripts, how I design thumbnails, but apparently that's [music] not all.
There are so many tiny details that even I didn't realize I was doing in my own videos.
The things [music] that make you watch till the very end almost subconsciously.
But I finally put it all together, I think.
Every rule, every decision, every secret and combined them into the video you're watching right now.
Pick a niche, they say, [music] and start making videos about the topics inside that niche.
Fitness, cooking, movies, science, YouTube growth.
Just choose it right and everything else follows, right?
Well, kind of.
Okay, that's actually a terrible advice.
I mean, a niche is just a topic and topics alone don't actually make people subscribe to your channel.
When I started this channel, I didn't say, "Okay, I'm going to make videos about YouTube growth.
There are 3,258 channels out there already doing that.
Hey everyone, so I'd be the new guy in the same room making the same videos, just worse.
How would you even stand out here?" You don't.
[music] You're done.
Finito.
Instead, I told myself, "I'm going to take people who make robotic, soulless videos and teach them how to make videos like an actual human." And I mean, I think it's going pretty well for now.
So, the difference isn't the topic, it's the transformation.
What does an ideal viewer walk away knowing or feeling after watching your video?
Not YouTube advice channel, but I finally understand why my videos suck.
And this guy explains it without making me feel stupid most of the time.
Channel.
[music] See the difference?
But it doesn't really matter if your video idea sucks.
Now, the best way to find solid video ideas is using your brain, but I don't like doing that.
So, let me show you the second best way, finding outlier videos, ideally in a completely different topic.
It's a video that performs 10 or even 100 times better than a regular video on that channel.
If a dude usually gets 1,000 views and suddenly drops a banger with 100,000, &gt;&gt; [music] &gt;&gt; that's an outlier.
It doesn't happen on accident.
Something about it worked and your job is to figure out what.
There are many [music] tools out there to find outlier videos, but honestly, just open YouTube and start scrolling.
Trust me, if a video is an outlier, you don't need to find it, it will find you.
And once you find one, watch it till [music] the end.
Analyze it.
Why it worked so well.
Is it the thumbnail?
Is it the intro, the story, the fact that a guy went from pre-diabetes to running an Ironman in 100 [music] days while managing to connect a whole thing to a philosophical self-reflection that makes everybody relate to it in their own lives?
Write that down [music] and use it in your next video.
Whoa.
Dude, couldn't you knock?
I'm in the middle of a video here.
&gt;&gt; [laughter] &gt;&gt; That's how you meet your best friend after a month?
Yeah, where have you been, man?
Working on something.
What kind of something?
I launched my own store.
A store?
Cool, right?
Look [music] at that subtle off-white coloring, tasteful thickness of it.
Oh my god, it even has a dot store domain.
Something wrong?
Dot store?
Not dot com?
Oh, my store's domain name?
Yeah, it's way more memorable and cleaner than whatever those platforms give you by default.
&gt;&gt; watch the last video, did you?
Uh, I read the AI summary of it.
Oh.
A dot store domain is built for creators who sell stuff online.
Instead of those ugly default links, it's just your name dot [music] store.
It's easy to share, easy to remember, and easy to put in your fancy business card.
&gt;&gt; get way [music] more clicks as well because people know it's a store straight away.
&gt;&gt; And more clicks means more sales.
&gt;&gt; You probably saw this before.
Mr.
Beast, [music] IShowSpeed, Press Publish, Dude Perfect, Zach King, and &gt;&gt; Yeah, basically any creator who takes their brand seriously already has one.
Size doesn't matter.
[music] &gt;&gt; Dude, wait.
What?
So, we both have a dot store domain.
Yeah.
Then who are we telling all that for?
For him.
So, if you're a creator [music] selling anything online or just thinking of starting, grab your dot store domain at the link in the description and use the code Isaac Verse at checkout for a nice discount.
Huge thanks to my friends at dot store domains for sponsoring the channel.
Now, back [clears throat] to the video.
So, you know the story.
Greeks couldn't get into Troy for 10 years, so they built a giant wooden horse, hid [music] soldiers inside, and left it as a gift.
Trojans took the horse, Greeks jumped out, destroyed everything.
What the hell does this have to do with YouTube?
Well, if you think about it, we're doing the same thing.
Look, it's unfortunate, but nobody wants pure [music] knowledge, so you have to put it inside a Trojan horse.
I'm not just talking about a fancy title and thumbnail, you know that already.
It's about every single layer, editing, animation, script.
They're all parts of the [music] horse.
The information inside is identical, but how you present it makes all the difference.
I've already made separate videos about these, [music] so I'm not going to get into details here.
You can check them out after this one if you want.
In YouTube Studio, click advanced mode, metrics, and [music] average views per viewer.
This number tells you how many videos the average person watched [music] on your channel.
1.7 is good for posting once every 6 months, I guess.
Basically, if it's higher than one, that means people watched more than one video in the last 90 days.
And there's one thing that improves this number than anything else.
Look at these videos.
What do you see?
They explain different topics, but they follow a single format.
[music] How I actually edit viral videos, how I actually write viral scripts, make viral shorts, thumbnail, voice over.
If someone clicks on the editing tutorial and likes it, what does he do next?
He watches [music] the thumbnail tutorial as well, and then scripting, and then shorts, and then voice over because it feels like a show with new episodes.
Makes the algorithm push the channel's videos to a bigger audience each time you post a new video in that format.
All the old ones grow with it.
New viewers find the latest video, then binge the whole back catalog.
Average views per viewer increase and that cycle makes your channel grow exponentially.
[music] So, if you want to grow your channel, having a back catalog of videos with a similar format is much more valuable than having one viral video.
And I didn't invent this concept, by the way.
All the big YouTubers have their own formats.
Mr.
Beast has $1 versus $1 something.
Finzar, Enrico Daredevil Bog.
You get the point.
So, don't focus on coming up with a viral idea for each video.
Try to find with a viral format your audience likes and you got yourself a loyal audience.
Let me tell you something no one tells you before you start.
Nobody is going to come up to you one day and say, "Okay, you're officially an expert [music] now.
You may begin." So, if you're waiting for that moment before starting to share anything, you're missing the point of the internet, dude.
But the good news is you don't need it anyways because YouTube is full of experts.
What's actually missing is more honest guides.
I mean, see yourself as just a random guy who's learning out loud and documenting his [music] findings.
I don't make these videos as some flawless guru sitting on the, I don't know, 58th step of the journey.
I'm [music] probably just a few steps ahead sharing what I learned with people who are a few steps behind.
That's it.
And to be honest, every time I post, I also think, "Oh, this is too basic.
Everyone already knows this." But when I share the video, there are hundreds of people saying it's their first time hearing this.
I hope you guys don't say it just to make me feel better.
So, what feels obvious to you can be the missing piece for someone else.
People don't want a guru's advice who probably already forgot what being a beginner felt like 10 years [music] ago.
Half the time the methods those guys used to get there are completely irrelevant today anyways.
Think about [music] it this way.
When your professor explains a new concept, you don't get it.
But when your friend explains the exact [music] same thing, suddenly everything makes sense because your friend still remembers what knowing it felt like.
Same logic.
That's why a simple video like I tried YouTube shorts for a year always beats how to make 100K per day with YouTube automation.
When you're analyzing all these massive [music] channels and comparing your videos with theirs, at some point you probably felt like [music] you're just too behind.
But here's what you're forgetting.
They've been doing this for 8 years.
[music] You're comparing your third video to their 300th.
And look, even my channel, I see so many people just look at it and say, "Wow, he blew up with just eight videos." Yeah, no.
Sure, my first video was terrible compared to my last one, but here's the thing.
This isn't my first video.
I made over 100 videos in my previous movie channel just to learn editing, storytelling, [music] and failing.
Nobody watched them, but that was the point.
So, when you see a channel ahead of you, try to look at the big picture.
Don't compare your chapter one with someone's chapter 100.
So, what do you do?
I mean, you can try to fix the thumbnail, the hook, pacing, music, color grading, story, voice over all at once, or just pick one thing that felt the weakest last time and ignore everything else until you make it good.
Because if you try to fix everything at once, you just get overwhelmed by how many things you should fix and you stop enjoying making videos.
Just [music] give yourself permission to suck for the first 10, even 100 videos.
Okay, this may sound wrong, but if you've never made a video before, you can straight up copy someone else's video.
Not steal, just recreate for educational purposes.
Take a video you liked and try to remake it yourself.
It will teach you what it takes to make a video like this.
So, you've got the knowledge, the format, the mindset, everything we talked about.
You know more about growing a YouTube channel than 90% of people who want to.
And you're still not going going it, are you?
Photoshop.
Photoshop, baby.
So, who's this guy?
&gt;&gt; Without further ado, let's get &gt;&gt; This dude [music] blew up in 6 months.
I'm trying to figure out how.
What happened to the last one?
It was a different approach, more storytelling, [music] but used less editing than this guy.
How long have you been doing this?
A few hours.
[music] Today?
Uh yeah.
You look happy.
I mean, yeah.
Learning this stuff is fascinating.
[music] I get so much knowledge to use in my own channel.
What?
Dude, what the hell are you doing?
&gt;&gt; That's your problem.
You feel like you're working, but you're not.
&gt;&gt; I'm learning from others.
&gt;&gt; in everyone else's channel.
When are you going to start yours?
What's that?
Your launch date in 30 days.
But I can't &gt;&gt; have a video until then.
&gt;&gt; [music]

===== [cX8c3R2LFd4] How I Actually Write Viral Scripts =====
I'm a professional YouTuber, script writer, and ginger with 6-7 years of experience writing viral videos getting millions of views.
And today, I'll reveal my secret five-step framework that guarantees viral Dude, what is this?
What?
It's the hook.
95% retention.
Keep going.
You're about to tell them about the framework.
I I don't have a framework.
Yeah, don't worry.
That's why I put the most viral scripting videos into ChatGPT.
This is literally what works.
Just keep [music] reading.
Hey, do you want the views or not?
I think I want All right.
to use my brain.
Hey, that took me like 30 seconds to generate.
Okay, let's try that again.
This time, no secret formulas, no manipulation techniques, just how I actually write my scripts.
The biggest mistake to make while scripting a video is just opening a blank page and scripting.
No matter how much you know about your topic, if you start [music] writing without a plan, you'll go all over the place.
At least, that's what usually happens for me.
So, before you write a single word, you got to build a foundation starting with Obviously, you got to have a solid idea to begin with.
It's a completely separate video topic, so I'm not going to dive deep into that here.
Just find something interesting for you and for your audience.
You can find it from video comments, other YouTubers, Reddit posts, or just have a spark while you're on the toilet.
I'm going to use this video that you're watching as an example to show you the entire process.
So, yeah, it's going to be a weird script.
Let's go.
Most people skip it and wonder why the video feels off.
So, what does that mean?
Well, why do the viewers click on your video?
And why are you making it?
For this tutorial, your goal is to, well, learn how to write a viral script.
And my goal is to write a viral script while teaching you how to write a viral script.
That's pretty aligned, right?
But let's take a random guru video.
Your goal is to learn how to make money, but the guru's goal?
Sell you their overpriced course.
They don't match.
&gt;&gt; [music] &gt;&gt; That's why what they say feels fake.
You can sense it.
Something's not right.
You just can't prove [music] it.
So, if you don't find your common goal with the viewer, no matter how many fancy storytelling techniques you [music] use, the script's going to feel weird.
Now, the secret sauce for my scripts.
Every good script has a surface problem [music] and a deeper problem.
It's what takes a script from a regular video to your video.
In my [music] case, sure, I'm breaking down how I write scripts.
That's the surface.
But what's the deeper problem here?
Well, let's not give spoilers for now, but remember this deeper problem concept for the end of the video.
Let's see if you can figure it out before I say it.
But if you've watched my videos before, you might have seen [music] the pattern.
This video is about making viral shorts, but the deeper problem is about having patience.
This one, about editing cool videos.
Deeper problem, perfectionism.
And this is about me trying to have a shorts channel.
The deeper problem is having [music] determination.
It may seem unnoticeable for a regular viewer, but subconsciously, these are the things that make your video stand out among other videos.
So, think about this for your next video.
Find the emotional struggle underneath the technical problem and write it down as well.
Never write the script without a thumbnail.
I mean, come on.
It's common knowledge at this point.
Make a simple draft in Canva or generate something with AI.
Just know what's the viewer's first impression while clicking your video.
Because if your script doesn't deliver on that promise, I mean, come on, dude.
It's over.
It's over.
And packaging isn't only about thumbnails.
It's about every first impression, like your domain name.
&gt;&gt; [music] &gt;&gt; Let's say you've got a killer product, made a great website, and then tell people to check out your store, and you drop a link that looks like this.
[music] Whether you sell on Shopify, Squarespace, or anywhere, you usually get a weird random link like these.
I mean, some of these look like my YouTube password.
Wait, that's my password screams unprofessional.
[music] But if you replace that mess with your name.store, now we're talking.
.store is a domain name just like .com, but it's built specifically for creators who sell something online.
It's clean, intuitive, and it literally screams trust.
.store for your store.
I mean, come on.
It just makes sense.
I recently found out some small creators like MrBeast, IShowSpeed, [music] Dude Perfect, another iZacman, and many more people are already using .store as their domain.
And now, I have one, too.
Thank you.
Thank you.
You can get my [music] presets and guides from IsaacVerse.store right now.
It's memorable, and it tells you exactly what you're getting.
And it's not just a fancy name.
.store domains are proven to drive two times [music] the visibility.
Why?
Because when people see the link, they know it's a store straight away.
And when they know it's a store, they click.
When they click, they want They want They add to cart.
They add to cart.
Shh.
They buy.
So, if you're a creator selling merch, courses, art preset, or literally anything, your .store domain is waiting for you at the link [music] in the description.
Huge thanks to .store for sponsoring this video.
Now, who are we actually writing this script for?
It's not needed for every single video, but it's good to have a document where you write down one or two audience [music] avatars who would watch your channel.
If you haven't heard this before, it's pretty simple.
Open a blank document and write down as much detail as you can about your potential viewer.
[music] For my case, it can be a YouTuber with less than a thousand subscribers who wants to write better scripts for his video, knows the basics about writing technique, retention, and YouTube algorithm.
Maybe struggling [music] to get his first viral video.
The second avatar, someone more intermediate, wants to learn something new to apply in his next video, knows more than average about scripting, retention, analytics, and stuff.
That's probably the main audience I'm writing for.
Another small group, [music] and maybe a guy who just likes watching fancy edits and laughs at my terrible jokes.
So, which one are you?
Every channel has its own avatars.
You can write with more details, but I think this is enough for a starting point.
Just know who you're writing for and what's the complexity level you can go without losing them.
Now, the next big step is to sit down for a few hours and do some research about the topic.
I know what you're thinking.
I already know this stuff.
That's why I'm making the video.
Yeah, I thought that, too.
But here's the thing.
Even if you think you already know enough, there's always more to learn, and it's a great moment to improve yourself anyway.
So, watch a few videos on YouTube, read if there are any sources you found online, ask AI some questions, take note, write down what they explained, and more importantly, what they haven't explained.
That gap, that's your opportunity to shine.
[music] At the end of this part, you have to have a bunch of random notes all around the place.
They may not make sense yet, but it doesn't matter for now.
&gt;&gt; [music] &gt;&gt; You know the knowledge at this point, but you need a clear structure to follow while writing.
What comes after what?
[music] How do the pieces fit together?
So, take a look at your notes, write down all the points you want to explain, and try to sequence them in a logical direction.
A tiny tweak I do here is to clearly state where Isaac is at the start of the video and where he will be at the end.
You can do that for yourself, the explainer, or for the viewer's point of [music] view.
For example, in my editing tutorial, the start was Isaac wanting to make a perfect editing tutorial.
At the end, he realizes it's about the process, not perfection.
See, a clear transformation.
That's what [music] we're aiming for.
Now, we've got the start and end points.
We've got the main problem and a deeper problem.
Here comes the interesting part, taking them all and writing a story to capture it.
And how do we write a story?
Well, I made a whole video about it, but here's the idea.
There's a simple framework that's been used since &gt;&gt; [music] &gt;&gt; forever.
Harry Potter, How to Train Your Dragon, Iron Man, King Arthur, Gilgamesh.
That's like 4,000 years ago.
Hero's journey.
That's the name.
The story starts here.
[music] Then the hero gets a call to an adventure.
Then comes a wise man to help the journey start.
A lot of things happen in between.
A big crisis approaches, gets a new Let me show you how it actually [music] works in a YouTube video.
Have you watched my editing tutorial?
Cool, because if you haven't, I'm about to spoil the entire plot.
Though, what kind of psycho watches a tutorial for the story anyways?
Well, when you say it like that, what kind of psycho writes a story for a tutorial?
So, here it goes.
Status quo, that's where everything starts.
Isaac has a successful channel.
Nothing's bad, but something's off.
Call to adventure, something happens to kick [music] off the story.
It can be a problem, an opportunity, a threat, or just a curiosity.
You know, the "Where's the editing tutorial?" [music] comment.
Assistance, that's where the wise old man comes in, Steven.
Departure, that's where the hero starts the journey, [music] the actual tutorial begins.
Trials, that's the main part of the YouTube video.
All the points you want to mention, the mistakes, some wins, and maybe some losses, maps, breakdown, [music] the whole thing.
Approach, remember the deeper problem?
That's where it appears.
In the tutorial, the perfectionism creeps in.
Crisis, everything goes sideways.
This is the lowest point of the story.
60 days pass, [music] and Isaac is still editing the same video.
In good stories, though, this is also where the identity change happens.
You got to show you don't know everything.
Don't be afraid to be vulnerable, but no matter what, you got to find a solution to the problem to find the treasure.
It's the reward.
What did you learn from that crisis moment?
Isaac realizes the escape from perfectionism is to say, "It's good enough." Result, hitting publish moment.
Return, the positive comments roll in.
New life, he's not the same person [music] anymore.
The mindset has changed.
Resolution, this is where all the plot lines open up, and then status quo again, and the cycle continues with the next video.
See, it works insanely well for a YouTube video, but most people still don't use it.
So, the video has no conflict, no stakes, and no change at the end.
Without that, it would be just an editing tutorial with some useful tips.
But once you add the story, it becomes a journey.
And most importantly, the viewer sees themselves in you.
That's how you build a loyal audience.
But it's not always that simple.
For reference, the hero's journey map of this video looks something like this.
I'll show the details once we actually finish the journey, but it's quite messy.
And finally, there's one more layer.
Okay, this one may be overkill for 90% of channels out there, but I'm explaining my entire process, and this is a big part of it.
So, here it goes.
Writing mini stories for your videos is cool, but if you blindly use the hero's journey, that's just a repeating cycle with no ending.
It works, but wouldn't it be more epic if we connect all those stories to one another?
Use them as pillars of a grand story that unfolds with each video.
You see where I'm going with this?
So, every video is connected.
The story scenes, the big charts, even the reason I'm teaching you this, it's all leading somewhere.
&gt;&gt; Dude, you're leaking the grand story.
They aren't supposed to know about the prison yet.
What?
No, I'm just You You're live?
Relax, man.
They don't know what that means.
Sorry, man.
Can't take any risks.
&gt;&gt; What's that?
Well, I can't really reveal the grand story of my videos since it's not finished yet and I don't want to give [music] spoilers, but you can understand this concept by looking at the Marvel movies.
From Iron Man 1 in 2008, they made stand-alone stories and combined them all in a grand story that peaked with Endgame in 2019.
&gt;&gt; [cheering] &gt;&gt; Damn, the memories.
What a time it was to be human.
Just give me a moment.
&gt;&gt; [screaming] &gt;&gt; Anyways, once the plan is ready, I send [music] it to my best friend and ask for his opinion.
Oh, I don't have a friend.
But, Chat GPT works.
[music] Now, you might ask it to write the script for you based on your plan and that's how you throw all your work in the garbage because it just writes a generic script no matter how much [music] context you give it.
So, what I use it instead is ask it to roast my outline.
What did I miss?
Is it too boring?
What can I add?
What can I remove?
What about changing the plot twist?
After a few back and forths, you're finally ready to actually write the script.
Open a blank page, take your outline, set a timer, and just type.
Don't worry about the grammar, wording, structure, [music] or anything.
Just get the thoughts out of your head onto the page.
Expand on each point in your outline.
The goal [music] here is to have something to work with instead of staring at a blank page.
Here are some small tactics I use while writing.
Well, it's kind of common sense, but I see so many people make this mistake.
They start breaking down really advanced concepts right [music] at the beginning.
Of course, it makes you sound smart, but most viewers don't really understand all that and just leave the video.
It's like going from zero to a hundred right away.
So, start [music] by giving some context for people who are not familiar with what you're talking about.
Then, explain simple concepts and gradually increase the complexity.
Remember the start of this video?
We [music] were just talking about the packaging, topic, research, simple stuff, and we slowly increased to stuff like hero's journey and universe building.
Now, YouTube advice says to only explain [music] simple concepts and avoid complex topics to maximize retention.
Yeah, that's indeed good for retention, but it's not how I want to cook.
I want to give as much value as possible to those who want to learn more.
I guess it's a fair trade to get slightly lower retention in return.
You probably heard the rule show, don't tell.
[music] Well, everyone knows that.
I'm talking about something else and it improves the retention way more if done right.
[music] Do you remember what I said while explaining the deeper problem concept?
Sure, I'm breaking down how I write scripts.
But, what's the deeper problem [music] here?
Well, let's not give spoilers for now, but remember this deeper problem concept for the end of the video.
Let's see if you can figure it out before I say it.
See what I did there?
Instead of telling you this is the deeper problem, I asked you to figure it out by yourself.
It makes the video not just me talking, you listening, but more like a conversation, an interactive thing, and makes you pay more attention.
It's like two different teachers.
One just explains the lecture from start to finish, but the other doesn't reveal everything up front.
He gives you hints, asks you questions, makes you think, and figure out the answer by yourself.
And we all know how good it feels when you actually figure out the answer, right?
It's the same principle here.
Lastly, not for the actual script, but it makes your life way easier to add some notes for editing.
Things like [music] add sigma grindset music, show a footage of Captain America lifting Mjolnir, or Isaac sending it to his best friend via WhatsApp and match cut to Chat GPT.
Yeah, even that was scripted.
Keep writing until you've explained all your bullet points, implemented the hero's journey, and solved the deeper problem that you've set up.
Once you finish the first draft, read what you wrote, change up the order, add some extra points, remove some unnecessary stuff, and tweak [music] the sentences to make them flow better.
How do you do that?
Glad you asked.
Naturally, when you write, you write the points like Okay, this happens, right?
And then, this happens.
&gt;&gt; But, it's too linear, too predictable, boring.
Instead, you should write like This happens, but this happens, therefore this happens.
It's way more interesting to listen to.
At least the writers of South Park say [music] so and these guys made 28 seasons, so I think they know what they're talking about.
If you paid attention, you may have caught some points where I used that writing.
You know the knowledge at this point, but you need a clear structure to follow while writing.
So, take a look at your notes.
Writing many stories for your videos is cool, but if you blindly use the hero's journey, that's just a repeating cycle with no ending.
It works, but wouldn't it be more epic if we connect all those stories to one another?
Of course, it makes you sound smart, but most viewers don't really understand all that and just leave the video.
So, start by giving some context for people who are not familiar &gt;&gt; makes everything more dynamic.
Another really weird tactic to make your script more interesting is rhythm.
Most beginners write with the same sentence length over and over again.
It creates [music] a monotone script, but if you write your sentences with different lengths, like the script of this video, it makes [music] it less boring.
I actually learned this technique while researching for this video, but realized I've already been doing it subconsciously in my script.
So, it's a nice tactic, but I don't think there's any need to overthink it.
Just make sure not all your sentences are the same length and you're good to go.
And lastly, send it to an AI and ask for feedback or a friend if you have one.
So, what do you think?
Well, I mean, it's something.
Something?
Look, it's not terrible, but it's too complex.
Hero's journey, universe building, you got to think about retention, dude.
People will click off.
All right, I can refine it more.
&gt;&gt; Actually, here.
I ran it through the retention optimizer AI.
It removed those weird parts that dropped your retention rate, added some small [music] payoffs throughout, and changed the ending to a rage bait.
Really?
Yep, works every time.
It'll get at least 30% more watch time.
That's the goal, right?
Now, what do you think?
It It's better, technically.
And that's all that matters.
Just delete your version, use this one, and the video goes viral.
We win.
Do it.
&gt;&gt; No.
What?
It may have better retention, better [music] everything, but it doesn't have a soul, man.
I won't manipulate people to keep that chart high and I won't delete actually useful [music] parts just because they hurt retention.
Sorry, man.
I'm doing it my way.
Why do you always choose the long route?
Maybe you're not the right [music] Isaac, either.
What?
Nothing.
But, the universe [music] building part was badass, actually.
&gt;&gt; [music] [music]

===== [KhQTKG3Xtbs] How I Actually Make AI Voice Sound Real =====
So, in this video, [music] no, wait.
So, in this vid, we're going to break down the That sounds terrible.
Still recording?
Um I can't get it right.
I just don't sound like the YouTuber.
Good.
Good?
What's good about that?
Have you heard an advice?
If you're homeless, just buy a house.
What the That doesn't make any sense.
I mean, if you don't sound like a YouTuber, then just use something that does.
And just like that, I went down the rabbit hole of AI voice generators.
&gt;&gt; [music] &gt;&gt; So, this is how I actually make an AI voice sound [music] real.
Okay, look.
Before we get into the technical stuff, if you want to make a realistic voice with AI, you need to understand what the hell makes human voice realistic in the first place.
Really, like, why does your brain think you're listening to a real person right now instead of a computer pretending to be a ginger dude with a fancy suit?
Well, if you break it down, there are four elements.
If I keep the same tone throughout the entire video with no ups and downs in my voice, that would make it sound robotic.
I talk like that in real life.
Oh man, this robot can talk more human than me?
Anyways, if all of a sudden I change my tone from monotonous to super excited, that would make it sound more human.
You probably heard that cutting all the pauses in your video boosts retention.
Even though that's kind of right, it's not worth making yourself look like a lifeless robot that's been controlled by the algorithms.
Instead, pause on some important points to make your message more impactful.
And make your AI voice sound more natural, of course.
Just like making pauses, emphasizing important words in your script No, emphasizing important words in your script is also a powerful way to make your AI voice sound more realistic.
And lastly, of course, if you use ChatGPT to write your entire script, no matter how realistic your AI voice is, at some point, it will start to sound robotic.
And yeah, if you write your scripts with AI and think that nobody knows, trust me, we know.
All right.
So, with these four elements, you can cook a 96.2% pure AI voice.
These are the main things you need to keep in mind while creating your [music] voiceovers.
And we'll use each of this in a minute while creating the actual voiceover.
But before that, we need to choose a software.
Look, there are so many AI voice generators out there right now that I just gave up counting.
[music] I tested almost every single one for this video, and you know what?
Most of them are fine.
They do a decent job at replicating a human voice.
But the one I always come back to is called ElevenLabs.
So, that's going to be the software we'll use for this video.
And no, they didn't pay me to say this.
I wish they did, but they didn't.
I've been using it since I started this channel, and you're seeing or hearing how realistic it sounds.
Be honest, you sometimes forget it's not a human voice, right?
You don't?
Okay, never mind.
There's a link in the description if you want to check it out and follow along with your own script.
Just create an account [music] and try the techniques we're going to use by yourself.
Okay, fine.
Let's do this.
So, you know the theory.
Now, what do you need?
A voice.
This is an important step because once you pick a voice, you're basically married to it.
All your future videos, that voice.
So, don't just click the first one you see and call it a day.
You're going to need something solid.
Take your time.
[music] Pick a nice one.
Now, there are a few ways to create a voice.
First, if you want [music] to use your own voice, you can go with this route.
You may think, why would I clone my own voice when I can just use my throat?
But, it's going to be a really important step at the end of the video.
Just let me cook.
Click the voices tab, clone a voice, then instant voice clone, and upload a sample.
If you got time, you can create a professional voice clone as well, but keep in mind that it requires at least 30 minutes of voice sample.
Once you generated your voice clone, you can use it wherever you want.
That's crazy.
Wait, actually, yeah, that's completely illegal.
You can't clone someone else's voice without their permission.
It's like against every terms of service ever written.
So, you better use it with your own voice only.
And Finzar, if you're watching this, please, don't sue me, dude.
Get the hell out of here.
Seems like no AI can say it like the original.
Now, if you don't like your own voice, you can choose one of the voices from the huge voice library here.
Oh, brilliant.
Just what I needed.
Another Evil is only frightening.
I love the way you look at me.
Like you already know your mind to me.
&gt;&gt; Anyways, so, the most asked question in this channel after how you edit your videos is which voice are you using in ElevenLabs?
Well, the voice you're hearing right now isn't from the voice library or a cloned voice.
It's a custom voice.
Most tutorials don't mention this, but you can actually create an entirely new, unique voice in ElevenLabs.
It's usually as realistic as the ones from the voice library while being not available to everyone with one click.
So, it's a great choice for creating a brand that doesn't use this voice.
No one else can use it for their channel.
Um well, if they don't clone your voice with the cloning feature, but you get my point, right?
In the voices tab, click create a voice and voice design.
When I created my voice a few years ago, this feature was just a single button that you can click and hope for a good voice.
But now, you can describe the voice in your mind however you want.
Like, a young man in his 20s, American accent, speaking with quirky but charismatic style and speaks with a lot of emotion throughout the speech.
I don't know.
Something like that.
And let's reduce the guidance a bit to see what it comes up with.
Hey there.
So, I was just thinking, wouldn't it be wild if we could like teleport?
Imagine the possibilities.
No more traffic, just poof, you're there.
Damn!
Can I change my voice to that?
No?
Okay.
Now, if you found a voice that works for you, we can move on to generating the actual voiceover.
At this point, you have a nice voice and you know what a realistic voice sounds like.
So, you can just copy your script, paste it to ElevenLabs, and hit gen Wait, hold on for a second.
Of course, you can do it.
You may even get a pretty good result from it as well.
But if you do that, so and after listening to it for a few minutes, something will feel &gt;&gt; [music] &gt;&gt; off.
And the viewer is going to feel it as well.
I don't know what it is, but it's there in all AI voices.
It's like they follow a pattern that just gives it away.
And once you notice it, you can't un-notice it.
So, let me show you how I generate my voiceovers.
[music] It takes much more time, but it's the only way I found to get rid of that uncanny feeling.
And it's probably the secret sauce that makes you wonder how this ginger dude sounds so realistic.
All right, enough yapping.
Let's get started.
First off, put the script down slowly.
We have to choose a voice model first.
V3 is their latest model.
It can do crazy stuff like making the voice giggle, whisper, or be excited.
That sounds great, right?
But when I tried it with my own voice, it sounded like this.
Who the hell is that?
That's like my evil twin or something.
I even tried it with other voices, and every time, it slightly changes the voice itself.
So, you can give them a try if you want.
It's still in the alpha stage, so hopefully, it will be more stable in the future versions.
But it's not really usable right now.
So, I use the V2 model instead for all my videos.
Unlike V3, this model has a few more sliders.
Increase the speed, reduce the stability, and change that annoying music.
I'm trying to focus here, dude.
Thank you.
Drag the similarity to something like 70% and increase the style exaggeration.
Now, select just a few sentences from your script and paste it to ElevenLabs.
What did we needed for a realistic voice?
Changing tone and speed, pauses, emphasis, and writing like a human.
I assume you already nailed the last part.
So, let's focus on the other three.
Using three dots makes the voice sound disappointed or confused.
To make it more excited, use exclamation marks.
It always works.
If it doesn't, use more exclamations.
We'll play with the pauses in the editing, but you can try three dots or commas to make them a bit more natural.
And for emphasizing important words, write them in all caps.
Another example, this is how it sounded like before making the changes.
Say my name.
You're Heisenberg.
You're goddamn right.
Pretty normal.
And this [music] is how it sounds after making the changes.
Now, say my name.
You're Isaac.
You're goddamn right.
Sounds much better.
But if you're not happy with how the result turned out, you can generate it again a few more [music] times.
You're goddamn right.
You're goddamn right.
You're goddamn right.
You're goddamn right.
But why are we generating a few sentences at a time?
Couldn't we do the entire script at once?
Well, we could, but we shouldn't.
One reason is, if it generates a bad take, we can easily regenerate it without wasting too much credits.
But the second reason, this is the secret sauce.
If you realized, each time you hit generate, the tone changes slightly.
The tone changes slightly.
The tone changes slightly.
Even though we input the same text.
So, we're taking advantage of that.
For each generation, you get two extra regenerations for free.
Use those free generations and download them as well.
You're going to see why in the editing part.
With every batch we generate, we get a slightly different tone and speed.
That's just like how normal humans sound like.
So, when combined together in the edit, it makes the final result sound more natural and fixes that uncanny feeling we talked about earlier.
After knowing these, it just takes a few hundred more generations and you get this.
Yes, it takes ages, but it's like cooking.
Small changes make a huge difference.
Now, put them all in a single folder, select everything and rename.
That's much more organized.
Now, we can move on to the next step.
I'm going to show this in Premiere Pro, but you can do it in any editing software that has a timeline.
Import the voice-overs you generated to Premiere Pro and start choosing the best takes.
Don't worry about timing or anything else at this point.
Just line the voice-over based on your script.
If you downloaded a few versions of the same sentence, [music] listen to all and choose the one that fits the context better.
But, the real magic happens when you chop some parts from each generation and combine them together.
For this sentence, I generated three versions.
Let's listen to each one.
But, the real magic happens when you chop some parts from each generation and combine them together.
But, the real magic happens when you chop some parts from each generation and combine them together.
But, the real magic happens when you chop some parts from each generation and combine them together.
Now, they sound good on their own, but to make it more human-like, I took the best sections from each version and got the final result.
But, the real magic happens when [music] you chop some parts from each generation and combine them together.
Once you got a long straight line, start cutting the pauses.
Use [music] the second line to start the next sentence right after the last one ends.
But, don't forget to add pauses and intentional spaces for the important parts of your video.
Now, even though Eleven Labs had a speed slider in its editor, you may realize just now that your voice-over is too slow [music] or too fast.
Don't worry, it happens.
I mean, I'm not the only one, right?
Premiere Pro allows you to change the speed, but it turns you into a chipmunk if you do that.
Oh, there's an option to keep the pitch.
There we go.
How's that sound?
Oh, great.
It distorts the voice now.
Is it really that hard to make a speed changer, Adobe?
Fine, I'll do that myself.
Great, the voice-over is almost ready.
But, we can make it sound more [music] professional.
Here's something new I learned for this video.
Take the parametric equalizer effect, add a high-pass filter, increase the H value, find echoey frequencies, find the echoey frequencies, or just drag and drop the preset I made.
I also added a few fun voice effects and other useful stuff as well for you to [music] try out.
So, feel free to download the pack from the description.
Well, I think we're done here.
But, wait a minute.
What does YouTube say?
Does it allow using AI voices?
Even more important, does it allow monetizing videos with AI voices?
Yes.
What?
You expected a long list of explanations?
Haha.
I mean, as long as you're making an original content, not a funny videos compilation, yeah, you should be fine.
But, should you be fine?
I mean, should we all just start using AI voices now?
What about, I don't know, authenticity?
Wow.
That's better than I could ever do.
&gt;&gt; [music] &gt;&gt; See?
Told you it would work.
Sounds great, man.
Yeah, but it's just not me.
What's wrong, man?
You're becoming a YouTuber.
Wasn't that what you wanted?
I don't know.
It feels like cheating.
It feels like I'm becoming a fraud, dude.
A fraud?
&gt;&gt; [music] &gt;&gt; You want to know what's fraud?
That.
Silence.
[music] Having something worth saying and keeping it locked up because you're too scared of how it sounds.
&gt;&gt; [music] &gt;&gt; That's fraud.
Who says it should sound like you?
As long as it's your own thoughts, who cares how it sounds, huh?
Come on, we don't have time for this.
He was [music] right.
I was so obsessed with how I sound, I was forgetting the most important part, [music] actually saying something valuable.
Yeah, I mean, I could end this video here and call it a day, but that's not all.
I kept the best part for the last.
I get it now.
[music] It's a great solution if you don't have a mic or if English isn't your first language.
I mean, at least that's progress, [music] but you're thinking too small, dude.
You're still thinking about replacement.
Don't you see?
Everything you learned, this isn't [music] just about finding a voice.
There's a bigger picture.
Man, talk in English, I don't understand.
Okay.
Name a big YouTuber.
I don't know.
Does Mr.
Beast count?
Too cliché, but okay.
When did his videos start to get viral?
I mean, he had over 10 million subs in 2018.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, but I mean super viral.
Look here, 2023.
Yeah, that's quite a jump.
&gt;&gt; Now, &gt;&gt; [music] &gt;&gt; when did he start dubbing his videos?
2023.
&gt;&gt; Exactly.
Ruhi Cennet, Mark Rober, Joe Hattab.
Anyone who started dubbing his videos to other languages suddenly doubled, tripled their views and subscribers.
Does it really make that much difference?
Think about it.
There are 2.5 billion active YouTube users [music] in the world.
Around half a billion of them speaks English.
That's less than 20%.
If we just add up the next five most known languages to this, it makes up almost half of the entire YouTube.
&gt;&gt; see the potential?
&gt;&gt; [music] &gt;&gt; Well, that was [music] the twist.
AI voice-over isn't just for narrating your scripts for you.
It's real superpower is dubbing your videos.
You can dub your videos and get a massive audience.
To try it myself, I added just two languages to my last video and the results were pretty clear.
Oh, it's actually blurry.
Don't worry, I'll show it after showing how to dub your videos.
As an example, let's take my last video.
I already dubbed it into Spanish and Hindi, so let's do Portuguese now.
Before we touch any AI, we need to separate the ingredients.
After finishing your video, go to your editing timeline, mute everything except the voice-over and export as an MP3.
Next, do the opposite.
Mute the voice-over and export an MP3 with only the music and sound effects.
You'll see why in a second.
Now, go to Eleven Labs and click the dubbing tab.
Create a new dub.
Select your original language, the target language and upload that voice-over we just exported.
Hit generate and um go make yourself a coffee.
It takes a few minutes.
Once it's done, download the file and drag it back into Premiere Pro.
Here is what you need to build here.
The top is your original native voice.
We're going to use this as a guide for timing.
Middle is the new AI Portuguese voice and the bottom line is for music and sound effects we exported earlier.
Line them up so the timing matches the visuals.
Once it sounds good, mute the original English track.
Slap my preset on the Portuguese track to make it sound crispy [music] and export just the audio.
Now, the only thing left is to add it to your video.
In YouTube Studio, click languages and choose the video you just dubbed.
Make sure YouTube didn't automatically dub to that [music] language with their Google Translate voice.
If so, just delete it from the menu here, then click here, select the dubbed language and upload your audio file.
Also, translate your video title and description with ChatGPT to reach the 99.1% purity and you basically unlocked a new country.
Keep repeating it for other languages as well and you tripled your potential audience size.
Now, as promised, here's what it looked like in the analytics tab.
So, yeah, it doesn't look that impressive, does it?
I mean, where's the millions of views?
Well, hold on.
If you look at the views by audio track instead, this is how it looks like.
Here's YouTube's auto-dubbed Hindi track and this is where I added the Eleven Labs version.
That's what I'm talking about.
And this is the difference in Spanish dub.
Wow.
That's thousands of people who watched my video.
People who would have seen none of it if I had listened to that voice in my head.
Turns out Steven was right.
&gt;&gt; [music]

===== [ciAywjey0cY] How I Actually Edit Viral Videos =====
Where's the editing tutorial?
&gt;&gt; How do you edit?
&gt;&gt; Bro, are you using Adobe to edit your videos?
You edit so good.
&gt;&gt; Where do you edit videos?
&gt;&gt; How do you edit your videos?
&gt;&gt; Where's the tutorial video?
&gt;&gt; tutorial &gt;&gt; Yep, this is the editing tutorial.
But why the hell did it take 9 months to make it?
Well, it all started 1 year ago.
An editing tutorial from me?
Really?
&gt;&gt; Why not?
Have you ever checked your views?
People love your videos, man.
&gt;&gt; Look, I know a thing or two about editing, but making a tutorial, there are freaking editing wizards out there making stuff I can't even imagine.
I mean, look at this guy.
How the hell does he do that?
The best I can do is how to edit slightly above average tutorial.
&gt;&gt; And isn't that the point?
You don't need to be an editing wizard, you just need to be you.
Someone who's been through the journey.
&gt;&gt; What do you mean?
&gt;&gt; Remember your early days, man.
You knew nothing about editing.
I've been there.
&gt;&gt; Wait, you were there?
&gt;&gt; I mean, for the most part.
&gt;&gt; Oh.
&gt;&gt; Everything you know, you learned the hard way.
Wouldn't you want someone to guide you through that path back then?
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; Just keep it real.
Show the way for past Isaac.
How you edit your videos from start until the end.
The stuff you learned along the way.
And hey, who knows?
Maybe I'll send it back to him.
&gt;&gt; All right.
&gt;&gt; That's my man.
&gt;&gt; But if I'm doing this, I'm making the best editing tutorial YouTube has ever seen.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, I know.
You've probably heard this a million times and rolling your eyes.
But different audiences want different editing.
You can't use a Mr.
Beast style editing in a Ruhi video.
It just doesn't feel right.
Now, every editing tutorial is saying this exact same thing.
But the problem is all of them proceed to explain both editing styles in theory and never actually give you practical advice.
You know why?
Because they don't want to lose the other side of their views.
It's all about keeping the retention high.
I know it's not a wise choice for retention, but I don't want to be one of them.
I want to actually teach you something.
So, instead of juggling two different editing styles and giving random tips from each one, let's pick the one that I'm better at, which is fancy editing.
The editing like this and this and this.
I want you to walk away from this tutorial actually knowing how to edit, not watching another video that explains the same theory for the hundredth time.
You wouldn't want to sit down to edit and realize halfway through that your script isn't good enough.
Or even worse, the video idea doesn't make sense.
If you want to edit viral videos, everything else should be made with that in mind as well.
An amazing edit can't save a boring script or a bad video idea.
So, let's quickly fix these at first.
Think about your target audience.
Is the idea interesting for them?
Would someone click on this video if they didn't know you?
I already covered it in another video.
For the script, start by outlining all the points you want to cover in the video and write everything that's on your mind.
Most YouTubers stop here, but after writing everything, I always come up with a secondary story.
Something deep, almost like a short film that runs alongside the main video.
After that, create a structure.
Cut out useless parts.
Ask ChatGPT to make it easier to understand and build some kind of progress from the start until the end of your video.
We're going to dive a lot deeper into scripting in a future video, so I'll not waste much time on that here.
Just record your voice on a microphone or like me, use an AI voice generator like Eleven Labs.
Create a voice and paste everything in your script but little little into the middle.
Some people still think that AI voices are too robotic.
But trust me, it has improved a lot.
I mean, I can get random emotions like see?
You can check out Eleven Labs with the link in description.
It's not sponsored by the way.
I just get a small commission if you use my link and it's a great tool.
Sorry.
Okay, let's move on.
Here's the thing about filming.
I have absolutely no clue.
I get all my footage from the internet.
So, yeah.
Look at other YouTubers videos but even better, watch a good movie before editing.
Just a heads up, don't watch five seasons of Breaking Bad just to get inspired for one video.
Don't ask me how I know.
With all the rise of short-form content, some people haven't even sat and watched a two-hour-long movie in year.
But if you find any type of movie that you like and watch it with your editor's eye, you'll get so much inspiration that you can't even make that much video.
Transition, storytelling, montages, camera angles, you name it.
Most of this stuff hasn't even been implemented once on YouTube yet.
So, you want originality?
This is where you get them.
Even though it's not going to be as good as a masterpiece like Morbius, you're making your own movies.
Once these are ready, move on to the next step.
When I say assets, I'm talking about music, sound effects, overlays, and presets.
It takes hundreds of trial and error to find the right ones.
But if you don't have time for that, I put together all the assets I used to edit my videos.
Here's where I get them from.
Now, this part may seem a bit unnecessary but it made everything way faster for me in the actual editing.
Take your script and color code what's happening in each sentence.
I like to divide it into six categories but you can adjust this based on your style.
Once you're done with the entire script, collect all the elements you need for each part.
I marked this part as a screen record.
So, now I'll gather all the screen recordings for this section.
The same process for images, videos, and everything else.
And for the animations, uh just keep it there.
I'm going to explain it in a few minutes.
After you went through the entire script and got everything you need, you're ready to move on to All right, finally, it's time to open Premiere Pro.
Click create a new project, create again, and add a new sequence.
I like to make my videos in 1920 by 1080, which is high enough so no one's counting pixels and low enough to not burn my computer.
Though you can use 4K if you got a beast in your house.
Oh, and 60 FPS.
Create your workplace by dragging windows around, however you're comfortable with.
Personally, I like this layout with the main video in the center, timeline at the bottom, footage and effects here, effect controls and raw footage monitor here.
If you're missing any windows, just enable them from the menu here.
Next up, import your voiceover.
Drag to the timeline, cut it based on the script, and remove any awkward pauses or moments where it drags the flow.
Okay, this one might not fit for everyone's workflow, but I like adding the music right after the voiceover.
I know, most editors save it for the end, but I think it gives more clarity on the vibe you're going for in the entire edit.
Plus, it lets you make cuts based on the beat.
And most importantly, it's more fun.
So, where to find good music?
I used to grab no copyright music from YouTube for a long time.
But lately, I've been hooked on Epidemic Sound.
It's just more convenient to find music and sound effects based on every detail, and you don't need to worry about copyright issues.
One thing I didn't realize until editing this video is that you can copy and paste your favorite songs from Spotify and get similar music.
I mean, what the hell?
Why didn't anyone told me that?
Once you've got your music, drop it to the timeline and adjust the volume based on the voiceover.
Now comes the fun part.
Remember the highlights on the script?
Start layering in all your videos, images, and screen recordings based on the highlights.
It's not necessary if you're new to editing, but it's a good idea to experiment with some cuts based on the music beats.
It gives your edit that extra punch and keeps it flowing easier.
Another little trick I like to use is just plain text on a black background, just like I'm doing right now.
We're going to dive into text in a minute, so leave it blank for now.
Okay?
Looking good so far?
But remember, you highlighted one more thing in your script.
Animations.
All right, here's the truth.
Animation is not as easy as it looks, especially if it's your first time.
But don't worry, we'll break it down together.
So, in the script that you highlighted, let's take the first animation.
I'm just going to take a cool one from my previous video.
In this video, I'll focus on the short-form content, how you can get similar views as quickly as possible, and show you the exact method I use to make them go viral.
Grab a pen and paper and imagine the animation.
You're probably thinking of something that walks the viewer through the method step-by-step, right?
Picture this.
We'll have some boxes connected to each other by arrow, like a flowchart.
Inside each box is a heading, but they're blurred out for now.
Then we'll we'll zoom into the first box, and boom, the text is revealed.
That's a solid one.
Let's create it.
Now, there are two ways to create the animations, easy way and hard way.
Let's start with the first one.
If your animation is too simple and not much fancy stuff is going on, you can create it in Canva.
I made my first video's animations using only Canva.
Just create the animation you sketched with shapes, text, and graphics.
For our example, it might look something like this.
Once you've got your design set, add some animations.
And that's it.
Keep in mind, if you want to add some zoom-ins to them in the edit, export the video in a higher quality, or it may look like this.
That works for simple animation, but if you want to edit like a pro, it's time to dive into After Effects.
But here's your warning.
This route gets much more complex than Canva, so it's okay to freak out if it's your first time using.
Every editor has been there.
Honestly, I think I'm still freaking out each time I see it.
Oh, There's too much detail to explain here, so I'm going to do a separate video for creating more complex animations in the future.
But, the idea is the same as Canva.
Use tools like text, shapes, or pen to create the base of your animation.
Once you have something similar to your sketch, adjust them based on the voice-over.
Add typewriter animation to texts and trim paths to move shapes.
Lastly, add some glow effect to make them pop.
At least that's what I do.
It takes more time, but the result is next-level.
You can repeat the same process for all the other animations as well.
Sketch, create, animate.
Until I make the full animation tutorial, if you want to do some research yourself, I shared some keywords and tutorials from other creators that might help.
And once all the animations are ready, drop them to the timeline as well.
Line them up with your voice-over and we're one step closer to a polished final edit.
By now, your timeline should be looking pretty solid.
But, here's the thing, the first rough cut is never perfect.
So, if you have time, go back and watch it again.
Trust me, you'll spot points to improve.
Add extra animations, screen recordings, some funny memes.
Sometimes I even rewrite parts of the script if a better idea pops in my head.
But, it's not about just adding things.
At some point, you'll need to cut off useless parts.
Look out for boring lines in the script, unnecessary footage, or bad jokes.
Cut everything that doesn't serve the video's main goal.
And yeah, I only keep the good jokes.
You wouldn't want to see the bad ones.
Don't Hey, don't show it.
So, you added new stuff, removed useless stuff, but that's still not enough.
There's one more thing you need, space.
I know, I know.
You always heard that people's attention span is shorter than a jellyfish, and if you want to make a viral video, you've got to keep up the pace.
Get to the point as fast as possible and move on to the next because if you slow down for too long, you're going to be boring.
So, cut every single millisecond where something interesting isn't.
Dry people's dopamine, make them hate their life after watching this video, and maximize your retention.
But, here's the twist.
Cutting every space may mean cutting the actual story from your video.
So, how do you balance it?
The best way to summarize this point is people don't have shorter attention spans, they just have higher standards.
So, make the stop worth waiting for.
All right, we're done with the boring parts.
Now, it's time to get our hands dirty.
Before we dive in, just remember this, good editing doesn't mean using as many effects as you can.
It means using it to complement what's being said in the video.
So, you need to resist the urge to throw in every flashy thing you find in the effects tab.
Sometimes you need to zoom in and out to highlight something on the screen or just to add a little movement to your video.
To do that, use a transform effect.
Add scale and position key frames to the start, move forward in the timeline, and adjust where you want the zoom to end.
Sure, it gets the job done, but it's not smooth at all.
To make it flow better, expand the effect and make the curves smoother.
Much better.
Well, that's basic knowledge.
To take it further, you need to keep the point of focus consistent in between cuts.
This keeps the viewers' eyes from wandering all over the place and makes it easier to watch.
To do that, use guides, center point, eye line, but my favorite is the rule of thirds.
The idea is that the main focus of each zoom and cut must stay at the same spot, like this.
Text in videos is a subjective choice.
Some people never use it, some use it all over the place.
Personally, I use it in three places.
Captions are the most obvious one, but I try not to slap them all over the video because it can become irritating to see a text pop every second throughout the entire time.
So, I use it where I talk about something important.
Center text is for moments where captions aren't enough.
It can have its own color, glow, or whatever makes it pop.
And then, there's text that becomes a part of the scene, attached to a screen, a wall, or something in the background.
Now, how do you actually create these?
It's simple.
Click this text tool, click on the video, type something, and adjust its settings in the effect controls to match your channel's brand.
To give it a pop animation like you see in my videos, we're going to use the ancient technique of Sensei Finzar.
Take the transform effect, add it to the text, set a scale key frame at the start around 70%, then move about seven frames forward, increase the scale to 110%, move forward another five frames, and bring it back to 100.
I smooth out the key frames, but there isn't a big difference.
Also add glow, glitch, or whatever else fits your style.
Repeat the same for other texts as well.
Looking good.
To save time in the future, select your text and animations, right click, and save as a preset.
Next time you can just drag and drop that preset to a text box, and you're done.
Obviously, using a character isn't a must.
So, if you don't use it, just skip this part.
But if you do, here's the process.
Create a head or a logo with an AI image generator.
I have a video diving deeper into this matter if you're interested.
Once you got something you like, slap it onto a stock image, export the image, and add it to your video.
Again, use key frames to move it around, smooth out the key frames, same stuff.
And, of course, create presets to use it next time.
By the way, if you're looking to save time with some of these effects, I put together a few of my presets for free.
Links in the description if you want to check them out.
You've probably noticed those fancy electric effects, dust, light leaks, and other textures throughout the video.
They're called overlays.
Basically, a video with black background, so that you can change the display mode to screen and make it transparent.
You can use them as highlighters, transitions, or just to make your video fancy.
I mostly use light leaks for transitions, but there are some preset packs for changing in between scenes, like slides, shakes, zooms, rotations, and things like that.
I don't go too heavy on effects, but when I do, my go-to options are glow, 3D transform, blur, mosaic, and things like that.
At this point, I get it.
You're probably overwhelmed by the things you have to learn to make a single video.
That's normal.
But, here's the secret.
You don't have to learn everything at once.
Just pick one small thing from this tutorial and try it in your next video.
Practice until you're decent at it, then take another, then another, then another, and repeat.
Nobody is chasing you.
Now, keep in mind, just because you can use an effect or a transition doesn't mean you should.
Sometimes keeping things simple is more effective than using every single effect you can.
But, no matter how great your edit turns out, without proper sound effects underneath, the video will feel flat, and viewers will sense something's missing.
There are three main types of sound effects: whoosh, riser, and impact.
These are the basics, so don't limit yourself.
Based on your video, you can throw in keyboard sounds, gears, memes, clicks, bomb clock, pretty much anything you can come up with.
You can find all kinds of sound effects from YouTube and paid platforms like Epidemic Sound.
I use a combination of both.
Now, the technique I found that makes the process easier is just mute all the other audio tracks.
Watch the video and add the sound effects you think would fit best.
May sound obvious, but when I started, I was doing my sound designs with voice-over and music enabled.
It wasn't good.
And don't be afraid to experiment and combine different sound effects together.
It may feel too time-consuming and unnecessary since you can't see anything visually changing in the video, but sound design is literally half of the video.
So, it's definitely worth investing time on that part.
And finally, lower the volume of the sounds so that they don't become annoying.
We're almost done, but the colors look a bit off.
To fix that, add a Lumetri color effect on each clip and change the exposure, contrast, saturation, and things like that.
All right.
So, mastering the basics and improving in all those skills with every video is essential, but here's where a lot of channels fail.
They don't try anything new.
You know the channels where each video feels like the exact same copy of the last 10, and that's the recipe for failure.
Now, I have to admit something.
I still don't know 90% of the stuff in editing, and neither does anyone else.
But, the key is, are you learning with every video?
If you keep trying new things each time, and that gap between what you know and what you don't know will slowly get smaller.
Sure, it will never go down to zero, but that's the point.
Most people are stuck here forever, and even if you're here, you can overtake them just by learning with each video, because most people don't even try.
Editing isn't just what you see in tutorials.
There's so much out there you can improvise or learn from others.
For every video I make, I try something new that I could not do until that point.
For my first video, I didn't know how to make animations, so I tried making crappy animations with Canva.
For the second one, I tried these electricity effects.
Next, I used After Effects for the first time and tried creating an entire storyline.
The list goes on for every single video.
That's why these videos take so much time to create.
Sometimes I spend 3 hours learning a new technique to use in a 5-second part of my video.
Most editors just do what they already know to be more efficient, but if you invest 3 hours to learn that new effect, the next time that 3 hours will become 1 hour, then 30 minutes, 10 minutes, and just a few minutes, and once an impossible effect will become an ordinary thing.
That's how I learned to edit better.
Sounds cool, right?
But, sometimes well, most of the times, things don't go as planned.
&gt;&gt; How's the masterpiece coming along?
&gt;&gt; Almost done.
Just adding some final touches, you know, little details to make it perfect.
&gt;&gt; Dude, you said the same thing last week and the week before.
&gt;&gt; Just a few more tweaks, okay?
Trust me, it's going to be the ultimate tutorial.
&gt;&gt; All right, man.
But, remember, sometimes done is better than perfect.
&gt;&gt; Ugh, you sound like an AI-generated motivational video.
&gt;&gt; Just don't get lost in details, okay?
&gt;&gt; don't worry about me.
So, I kept editing, applied everything I learned, even researched new techniques to take my video a step further.
Every day, it felt like the video was getting better and better.
But, after a while, something started to feel wrong.
What the is going on?
Almost 60 days had passed and I was still editing the same video.
&gt;&gt; Want to grab some drink?
&gt;&gt; It It feels like I'm stuck in a loop that will never end.
What should I do?
Isn't there a tutorial for this?
&gt;&gt; I mean, you're the one that's making tutorials here.
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; You know, I've been watching you since the beginning of your journey.
Do you know what your weakness is?
And you think that you can learn everything just by watching a tutorial about it.
But, there isn't a tutorial for this.
&gt;&gt; So, am I going to stuck here?
&gt;&gt; Look, I'm not an editor, but let me tell you what I know.
That's the thing about anything creative you do.
It's never done.
You can always improve it.
Add a new effect, create a better animation, find better music, tell a better story.
It's a cycle that never ends.
&gt;&gt; So, how do I escape?
&gt;&gt; Maybe you just need to say it's good enough.
&gt;&gt; It's good enough.
&gt;&gt; Take a deep breath.
And press publish.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, I still couldn't fully overcome my perfectionism.
But, I'm trying my best.
Even if it's not flawless, it's still going to help someone out there.
&gt;&gt; More than you know.
Sometimes it's better to see the process, not only the right things, but the mistakes as well.
That's what makes it Dude, I didn't finish my motivational speech.
&gt;&gt; Don't worry, they get it.
&gt;&gt; All right.
&gt;&gt; I know some of you were probably expecting some kind of secret technique that I used to make my edits stand out.
While making this video, I thought about this a lot, but the truth is such a technique doesn't exist.
I can't fully explain how I edited those videos.
The only technique was to keep learning new things each time.
Combine different styles, draw inspirations, break the rules, and add something from you.

===== [_rXj297vYYs] I Tried Making a Viral AI Video! =====
In this video, I'm going to teach you step-bystep how to create a YouTube automation video using I found an amazing AI tool that [music] can generate 10 short videos every 30 minutes.
Today, I'll be showing you how to recreate the fastest way to create.
We're going to use two AI.
[music] I hate AI videos.
Open any social media and start scrolling.
Half of the videos you'll see are made with AI.
An AI voice commenting on a funny video.
An AI text that's showing a random motivational quote.
AI image slideshow.
A video with AI script, AI voiceover, [music] AI captions, AI footage, AI music.
They're breaking the internet.
And I'm not okay with it because they're soulless, boring, inconsistent.
They make us dumb.
So that they could take over the world.
I don't know.
Maybe.
But it's AI.
You know, the biggest revolution in human history since the invention [music] of Bitcoin.
So what?
Think about it.
Isn't there a better way to use it?
There has to be a better way to use it, right?
We just need [music] to find it.
He was right.
So I spent the next few months searching all over the internet to find a way to make better AI videos.
And after dodging around 1,000 videos teaching how to make 300 shorts in [music] 30 minutes with Chad GBT and Canva, I think we got something.
It turns out it's not a brand new thing.
People have been making cinematic AI videos for the last few years, but they all have some big problems.
[music] The art style in each shot looks completely different.
The characters don't look the same.
The story is too AI generated, and most importantly, they don't [music] get views.
We need to fix them all.
Here's the plan.
I will try to create a video with AI completely from scratch, upload it to a new channel and see how many views I can get.
Before starting this video, I asked you guys for ideas.
Here are all the cool video concepts that you came up with.
Animated scenes with full emotions and add some emotions.
Emotions.
Okay.
Emotions.
Consistent.
Characters.
Editing.
Show me your edit.
Editing.
I like pterodactyls.
If you have a pterodactyl in the movie, I will watch it.
All right, pterodactyls.
A I got you, man.
Thanks [music] to everybody for sending their ideas.
Now, the next step.
Wait, what?
[screaming] [music] I know this guy.
Nope.
Now, these are great ideas, but we need more [music] context.
I wrote the story with Chat GPT's ideas and tweaked some parts a [music] little bit.
It turned out pretty well.
You can pause to read it, but we're going to see it at the end anyways.
So, now I already made a video about thumbnails.
But since we're making a video with AI, we got to make an AI thumbnail, too.
So, ladies and gentlemen, introducing the channel's very first sponsor, Pixels.
It's an AI image generator that's trained specifically on YouTube thumbnails so that with a single prompt it can generate stuff like this or this or this.
All right, let's create our thumbnail.
Our video is going to be about time travel.
So create a dramatic thumbnail with turbulent close up on a running bearded ginger man centered in the middle on his feet.
He has a slight dinosaur background the overall motion going on.
Pretty impressive for 10 seconds of work.
[music] Even if you know how to create it in Photoshop, it would take hours to create something like this.
But it doesn't stop here.
You can click this button and edit the thumbnail with your own words.
Let's add some muscles [music] to our guide.
Ah, that's a bit too much.
Perfect.
If you have a face in the thumbnail, [music] like this one, you can replace it with your own face by just clicking this button.
You can even search for a thumbnail concept that already worked on YouTube and [music] just paste the video link here.
The AI will analyze it and come up with a slightly different [music] concept.
Pixels recently released a new feature for helping you generate titles as well.
Just write what you have in mind and it will come up with really impressive [music] title variations.
They're constantly improving the algorithm with the new pixels 2.0 updates.
[music] The results look 10 times more impressive.
You can even add a custom text to the thumbnail, a feature that almost no other AI tool is able to do at this point.
It has more features coming soon like adding your own photos, [music] even creating a thumbnail from your sketch.
You can check out Pixels with the link in description and with the code Isaac, you'll get a 50% discount for the first month or use Isaac year for 33% on the yearly plan.
It's only valid for [music] the first 200 people, so go use it while you still can.
So, thank you Pixels [music] for sponsoring this video.
Now that we got our title and thumbnail, let's move on to the next step.
Before doing anything else, we need to plan what we want to create.
So, I used my impressive drawing skills to make this thing called storyboard.
Almost every [music] professional filmmaker uses this technique to plan their shots before actually taking it.
So, why not make it for AI films?
[music] The key is that it has to be easy to understand.
After a few hours of work, here's what they look like.
There are dozens of AI video generators [music] out there, but the most popular ones are called Stable Diffusion, Pick a Labs, Runway, and Sora.
The results from this one look great, but it's not released to the public yet, [music] so we can't use it.
Stable diffusion looks like a bit.
It makes the videos using your computer's and the UI looks a bit okay.
It's [music] too complicated.
These two are almost the same thing with only slight differences in style.
Basically, Runway is more cinematic while Piccolabs has [music] more cartoonish vibes.
I gave them the exact same prompt, and these are the videos they made.
I like the Runway style, though.
You can try both [music] and see which one works for you.
But it's not important for now because after this video, you can use any software with the same principles.
So instead of breaking down all the technical [music] stuff about the software, we will just learn what we need and focus on turning the ideas into videos.
As you might guess, you can generate videos in three different ways.
From text, from an image, and from a video.
We don't have a video yet, so [music] text to video is nice for generating quick B-rolls for your videos, but it's hard to predict the results if you're looking for a consistent style and characters.
So, the plan is we will generate images using AI and animate it with another AI.
It's going to be a piece of cake.
No god, that doesn't make any sense.
I'm going to use MidJourney here because everyone says it's the best image generator out there, but you can use any software you want.
First, get a subscription.
Go to Discord, create a new server, and add the MidJourney bot to the server.
That way, you can see all the images you generate in a single place.
Now it's time to see what this thing can do.
Write slash imagagic and uh I haven't used it for a while.
Let me catch up with the updates.
I read all the update notes they shared on their Discord.
I know boring stuff.
Then I watched a few hundred videos on how to use.
Here are some cool channels I found the most valuable information from.
I tried to apply what I learned to the actual software.
And to be honest, most of the images turned out bad, creepy, even kind of suspicious.
But with practice, they started to get pretty good.
And a few hundred attempts later, here's the strategy I came up with to generate the scenes.
First, type / settings and choose midjourney version 6 or whatever is the latest version right now.
Then, experiment with the most basic prompts you can think of and see what they do.
At the end of each prompt, add- if you want to generate them in landscape mode, or- arx6 for short.
Now, after each image, we get some buttons below.
The ones at the top increase the resolution and the bottom line creates slightly different variations.
When you upscale the one you like, more buttons appear.
Just try them once and you'll figure out what they do.
All right, these are a good starting point, but it isn't really possible to control much of the results this way.
We need to get more specific.
We can tell the AI where we want our character.
Instead of asking it to generate an image of a bearded ginger man, we can add a background based on our story.
Now, let's add one more person to the shot.
Tell where you want them to stand in the shot and what they do.
After getting the basics, the next step is adding more details.
You can do it by adding some adjectives and writing more detailed character description.
That was the last prompt we wrote.
Let's see what else we can add.
A charismatic 30-year-old adventurer man is watching the Giza pyramid in ancient Egypt while his dog wanders around.
man has a lean and a long ginger hair, wearing a light gray shirt with black cargo pyramid is made of glass.
All right, let that sink in.
We can add much more details to our prompts like time of the day, season, color scheme, and so on.
Most of the characters made by Midjourney lack emotion in their faces.
I mean, is this guy happy, confused, confident?
None of them.
He just exists.
So, it's always nice to specify the character's emotion in your prompt.
Happy, sad, scared, angry, confused, disgusted, [music] jealous, guilty, fury.
You know what I mean?
In an actual movie, each shot has a certain camera angle.
That's what makes them look cinematic.
We can get a similar effect by writing some keywords to our prompt.
I like this one.
It's all up to what style you're looking for.
Speaking of styles, you probably noticed almost every single image has a different style.
Some are realistic, others are more animation-like or illustration.
It's cool, but when we animate these, we can't really make them look like a part of a single video.
So, we need to give them a single style.
AI image generators usually make photos in between realistic and [music] animated looks.
I don't know what it's called, but it kind of became the signature of AI.
If you want to avoid this style, you may go towards either side [music] or try totally different art styles to get something unique.
First, let's go with the realistic.
You can add a movie genre to give it a certain vibe.
fantasy, sci-fi, comedy, I don't know, or a director name that has his own style, like Wes Anderson, who's known for his symmetric shots and weird colors.
Tim Burton, Edgar Wright, James Cameron, Spielberg, or any director you like.
I don't know much about cameras, but I saw most people like to add a camera type [music] in their prompts like that.
Or we can go the opposite way and get more animated style with words like Pixar, animation, [music] or 3D.
Other styles can be oil paintings, watercolors, anime, comics, 2D cartoons, surreal, van, cubism, cyber, black and white, renissance, pencil art, sketch, Japanese art, I don't know.
There are countless art styles you can choose from.
Pick the one you like and add it to your prompt.
But wait, it's still AI.
And AI is not consistent.
Even if you write the exact same [music] prompt, it will give slightly different styles each time.
But don't worry, there's a solution for that.
[music] It turns out you can give Midjourney a reference image to look for.
So it would generate all other images with a [music] similar style.
Now I want you to give your full attention to this point because we're about to get a bit technical.
Hey, turn off the music.
All right, you got this.
You got this.
Let's take this shot.
Upscale.
Upscale again.
Open in browser.
Download.
Upload to Discord.
Now write your prompt as usual.
Then just like d- AR16x9, write d- [music] sf.
Hit space and drop your image next to it.
That was a style reference.
It will copy its style to the new image.
We need to learn a few more parameters.
D- [music] S is called stylize value.
It shows how much midjourney can add its imagination to your image.
The default [music] is 100 and the maximum value is a 1,000.
Let's try something like 500 dash ca value.
It's like the unpredictability of the results.
Zero makes them almost the same.
And the shots get different as [music] long as you increase this value up to 100.
Style raw minimizes the improvisation and only follows [music] your prompt.
With all this knowledge, hopefully you can get any image in your mind with the best [music] accuracy.
But the biggest problem is still there since the very beginning.
This is not the same guy.
If we want to make a video out of these, we need a consistent character throughout all the results.
Yeah, that's the hard part.
What's your plan?
Hey, you have a plan, right?
Look, I'm going to be honest.
I watched all the tutorials about that, but none of them gets the perfect result.
The images always turn [music] out slightly different each time, and the process is too complex.
I don't want that.
I actually don't know what to do at this point.
Don't worry, man.
There's still time.
You can figure it out.
Can I?
Yeah, I can.
I couldn't figure it out.
Maybe I should move on to another tutorial.
A tutorial about [music] how I edit.
Nah, nobody would watch that.
Having a bad day.
Yeah, I [music] think we had this conversation before.
Don't even start.
Yeah, I'm not here to give you a motivational speech this time.
[music] Just wanted to know how's your AI project going.
Uh, not good, man.
It's clear it's not going to work out.
It's not the end of the world if I'm not going to check off everything on the list, right?
[music] I'll just accept and move on.
Hey, hey, hey.
No.
Look, you have to finish this video.
You hear me?
Otherwise, why is it that important for you anyways?
That's not the point.
If you were going to quit, why did you come this far?
I don't know.
It's time to finish what we started.
So with this new feature, just like d- sref, we can give a reference character to our prompt by typing d-cref.
so it can generate scenes with the same character every time.
First, we need a reference character to use in all our images.
To do that, generate your character based on what you learned until this point.
A like '90s anime style portrait of a 30-year-old bearded ginger man with green eyes.
The man is wearing a light gray shirt.
Here's the crucial part.
Split into four images shot from different angles.
It will give you something like this.
Upscale the one you like.
Take screenshots of each angle and upload it to Discord.
Now, it gets a bit technical.
Stay with me.
We can still use Cref command and paste each image link one by one.
But doing that for every single image can be a bit annoying if you're going to do it a 100 times.
So we're going to create our own command.
Sounds complicated, but all we're going to do is instead of Cref and links next to it, we will create a custom keyword so that when we write it, it will understand we mean this command.
Write/prefer option set.
Inside the option box, write your character's name.
Click plus one and select value.
Here write the command d- cref and paste your reference image links.
Now each time I write dash- Isaac, it will create the image based on the these images.
Finally, of course, you don't need to use all of these in all your prompts, but by using as much detail as possible, you'll get closer to the image in your head, which I guess is the main purpose of AI tools, isn't it?
Anyways, I repeated the same process for the rest of the shot.
And here are the images we're going to use.
Yeah, you better be watching this, man.
I got a pterodactyl for you.
Now, we need to turn these into actual videos.
Uh uh, we're a bit behind the schedule.
The video part turned out to be easier than I expected.
As I said in the beginning, I used Runway for that part.
It gives you some free credits, but you're probably going to need a subscription after some point.
Anyways, here's what I [music] did.
This is the main page.
When you open up your account, click on generate videos and choose Gen 2 image [music] to video.
After uploading the image you generated in Midjourney, write your prompt.
Unlike Midjourney, I saw it works best if you write very simple prompts like the man looking up because we already did most of the heavy lifting [music] with images.
Here we need to adjust the camera motion and motion brush tools based on our scene.
Camera motion is well controls the motion of the whole shot.
Tweak them slightly based on your image and move on to the motion brush tool.
This is where the magic happens.
Choose the specific parts you want to move and brush them with different colors like head, hands, the entire character, dog, sky, and building.
Then use these sliders to decide which direction [music] you want them to move.
Again, don't go too extreme with these or you might [music] get some extreme results.
Before hitting generate, tick this check box to get the final video with higher FPS and I mean, it's not bad at all for a raw video, but it's going to get better.
I repeated the same process for the rest of the images.
A quick note from the future.
I actually tried animating the rest of the shots, but even though the first few videos were quite nice, as soon as I tried some illustration style images, yeah, I mean, what's that?
However, when I tried the same thing with PALabs, it handled it way better.
The settings here are almost the same as runway, so the learning curve is a few minutes.
So, [music] realistic or 3D images for runway, cartoon or anime style for PALabs.
Now, we can continue.
And lastly, I used 11 Labs to get the voiceovers needed for the story, just like the voice you're listening to right now.
And yeah, if you didn't realize it's AI until this point, welcome to the club.
There's a link in the description if you want to try it yourself.
Now, we need to edit them together.
I will make a full guide on editing soon.
So, it's just a quick overview of what I did to edit this video.
Step one, put the voiceovers into order and cut the pauses.
Step two, find a nice music that fits in the story and add it to the timeline.
Step three, add the AI generated video clips based on the voice over and music.
Try to keep the flow between music and the visuals.
Step four, add zooms, camera movements, and transitions if needed.
Step five, add extra details like smoke, dust, or lighting overlays.
Step six, add some sound effects to important points.
If you're new to this, just use a popular sound effect pack from YouTube.
Or if you need something [music] more specific, again, search for it on YouTube.
Step seven, cover everything with an adjustment layer and add the lummetric color effect on it.
Play with the colors to get the vibe you want.
Step eight, if you want more cinematic look, add a crop effect on the adjustment layer and increase the top and bottom values.
Step nine, export the final video.
It's showtime.
It's been 1 week since I released the video, but before showing the results, we need to talk.
So, the AI video and all that is cool, but the real question is, where are you going to use these?
Is making story videos like these a good idea?
Probably not.
Wait, so all that stuff was for nothing?
Hey, did you really pay attention to the entire video?
[music] [music] Heat.
Heat.
[music]

===== [mI7cq4uHCZ4] How I Actually Make Viral Thumbnails =====
I made only three videos on this channel, and all of them got over 100,000 views.
Believe it or not, it all comes down to these four steps.
I already explained how I use storytelling to get more retention.
Now, it's time for step two.
You ready?
If no one clicks on a video, they don't watch.
Point of a thumbnail is to create a journey from the thumbnail to even the high-quality images are crucial.
Add some intrigue.
I make people want to know what happens next.
make any sense.
We need to make better thumbnails.
I don't mean these guys are wrong, but let's be real.
You already know all these basics.
Even if you don't, they're just common sense.
Do you really need to be told to keep your thumbnail simple five different times in five different videos from five different gurus?
I guess not.
So, here's the full guide on how to actually make a thumbnail that gets clicks.
We will go from the design rules I use to thumbnail types, getting inspiration, branding, word choice, visual effects, testing, and The first rule is pretty simple, but it takes your design from a mess to a piece of art.
Just take any popular YouTuber's thumbnail and draw four lines like that.
Do you see what's going on there?
Almost all of them, even my thumbnails, follow these lines at the core.
Well, you might know the rule of thirds from photography, which basically says put the objects over these lines to get a nice shot.
That's why almost every channel has a thumbnail like this, because it works.
So, just add those lines to guide you throughout the entire design.
Trust me, it's a game-changer.
We'll come back to the layout, but before that, we need to choose a color.
You probably heard people talking about the color wheel.
The idea is to get enough contrast in your thumbnail.
You should choose two opposite colors from this circle.
And if you dive deeper, you would see there are more techniques that's used to get fancy combination, but here's the plot.
I don't use them.
There's a much easier way to find a color for your thumbnail and for your entire channel.
So, here's what I do.
Take any color you like as your main color.
I chose yellow for mine.
Then, add three more, one black, one white, and one in the middle.
You can slightly tweak these to match your main color, but I like to keep it simple.
And finally, add another color to highlight things.
There we go, a color palette that's actually useful.
Even though my sister says it looks like a Minecraft house made from diamond and gold, I like it.
You can use it in your editing, too, but that's for another video.
Now, you might ask, wouldn't that be too repetitive if I use the same colors in all my thumbnails?
That's right.
The solution is simple, just change the highlight color.
That way, you can keep the fresh vibes while still being recognizable by your viewers.
It's simple, just pick a basic font that isn't overused, and you're good to go.
For those who are asking, the font I use is called Eastman, and it looks pretty good.
All right, we talked about the rule of thirds and how to make a good layout.
It's nice, but you can't just invent something new in this square for every single video, right?
Well, you don't have to.
If you paid attention while browsing on the home page, you may already have catched some thumbnail types that most YouTubers are using.
Shout-out to this legend for breaking them down into 21 categories.
But here's the best 10 that will work for 99% of the time.
YouTubers like Airrack and Mr.
Beast use that style all the time.
But even if you're not an entertainment channel, you can still use this type of thumbnail.
Take a look at this.
Hey, what's he doing?
Dude, put that chicken down.
Oh, this is how airplane engines are tested.
They test it with chickens?
See, that's the target emotion of these thumbnails.
Just shock the viewer while scrolling on the home page and make them click.
It's easier to say, but think about what you have in your video that would shock the viewers.
Of course, big things always get more attention.
Don't take this out of context.
People are curious to know what a $50 million house looks like or how this dude earns $900 just by listening to music until they realize he doesn't.
Among all those over-edited and screaming thumbnails, another way to stand out is keeping it really simple.
Just an interesting chat from Discord, a chair, a red button, or this thing.
Whatever this is may get more attention.
It's usually just a screenshot from the video and a simple question that makes you curious to know what's going on.
Channels like Doctor Insanity or Zach are doing it so good that it makes it impossible to skip.
If you're a small channel in a popular niche, social hacking is probably the best way to gain the first traction.
Basically, take the face of a famous person in your niche and slap it into your thumbnail.
Oh, the video must be about that person though.
Otherwise, it's called clickbait.
All the videos you see with Mr.
Beast's face are using the strategy and it works pretty well.
Even Dream used it in his first videos.
So, don't underestimate the power of a popular face.
All right, let's speed things up.
This is the style you see all over YouTube.
Just the creator next to something bigger.
Yeah, the one I use in this channel.
Basically, an interesting text at the top to give more context about the video.
It can be anything to compare to.
Before and after, something cheap versus expensive, iPhone versus Android, pin versus AI.
You got the point.
Blurring the main character or the final result so people have to click to find out.
I don't know if you realize, but all of those viral thumbnails that I showed in this video and even all the ones that you saw in your homepage have one thing in common.
They're not just using one of these formulas.
They're combining them.
Look at Mr.
Who's the Boss's series where he buys every release of a tech like iPhone or PlayStation.
I showed you this in big numbers, but if you look closer, you would see that he also uses header comparison and even social hacking formulas all at once.
Or take a look at this chair.
Which types could you spot?
It's branded because of their logo right here.
It's simple because, well, there's nothing else than a chair.
And it's using social hacking because everyone saw on chair at least once.
We can even include it as a weird object if you think chairs are weird.
Even I used big numbers and header styles in my first video on this channel.
I wouldn't say it's very creative, but it worked for sure.
I can go on with all the thumbnails that I showed, but the idea is choose two or three styles, combine them, and try to stick to it for around five videos.
It will make your audience understand it's your style, but don't stick to it for too long because using the same formula 100 times would probably make the viewers feel like you just keep repeating yourself, and it will lower the chances of click unless you're a reaction channel.
Well, it's one of the most popular advice that you can hear from YouTube gurus.
Just look what other YouTubers in your niche are doing and try to replicate it, but I completely disagree with that, and I have evidence to support my opinion.
Take my first video as an example.
Trying YouTube shorts is definitely not a unique video idea.
What about the thumbnails?
That style seems to work for many people.
Well, in that case Aha, you're a smart guy.
Just copy what works, right?
The problem is you're not the only one.
That is the worst thing to do.
If you see many similar thumbnails from different channels about the same topic, hopping on that train is probably not a good idea.
If so many channels are already doing that, it's the cliché thumbnail now, and your audiences are basically the same.
So, there's no reason for people to click on your zero view video instead of their 100K.
Even worse, people will probably notice they're too similar, and you might become just a copycat of your competitor.
So, what should you do then?
You can't reinvent the wheel for each new video, right?
Well, just kidding.
Of course, it's not really possible to do that.
If you're posting consistently, sooner or later you'll run out of thumbnail ideas, and when that happens, you should just look at channels outside your niche.
For that video, I went through the channels I follow in completely different niches and came up with this thumbnail.
Same thing applies to almost all of them.
So, get inspiration from the channels with different niches.
That will make your video stand out from the crowd because your audience with those channels are different, but it's the same with all these other channels.
So, when it appears alongside those, yours will be much more likely to get more attention.
Experimenting with new things is always good, but just try to keep the core elements like colors, fonts, and style consistent.
That makes your audience notice your video on the home screen way faster and with enough time boosts the CTR.
This is where you got to be creative.
You can use a big number if that suits your video, a bold statement opposite of a common belief, or just a title that represents your video.
If nothing fits well, leaving it blank is always an option.
Congratulations, you just learned how to make a viral thumbnail.
Right?
I don't think so.
Look, you learned the theory, which is really important, but it doesn't mean anything if you don't know how to use them.
Most people will probably close the video at this point, take all that information, and go make a thumbnail like this.
But if you stick around, you'll learn how I turn this into this.
Hey Finn, what do you call it?
Photoshop, baby.
Photoshop, baby.
How do you say it like that?
With just a few simple effects and some ancient Photoshop sorcery that I learned from this guy.
Yeah.
Hey everyone, I'm still here.
Got stuck in this timeline.
Dude, you need to work on your jokes.
Photoshop sucks.
After choosing your concept and sketching a detailed draft on paper, open Photoshop.
Create a new project, get your line, add your character, text, a nice background, and other elements.
It already looks better than that.
Make the text fancier by double clicking here.
Then, change the color, add inner glow, outer glow, and whatever this is.
Just tweak the settings to make the unique effect you want.
Here are the adjustments that I usually do if you want to get a similar style.
After you're happy with the look, save it as a new style to use it next time.
You can do that for other elements, too.
It's the effect that I used in this thumbnail to bend this chart.
You can bend anything by just clicking the corner of an image and choosing this button.
Now, you can warp it however you want.
Looks good, but they seem too distracting in the background.
Let's add some blur.
Select the image, filter, blur, Gaussian blur.
That might work, but we can do even better.
Let's try again.
Select image, filter, pixelate, mosaic.
Oh, we made it worse.
Again.
Again.
That's it.
Even though these blurs might not suit this thumbnail, they work very well in some cases.
So, it's nice to know how to use them.
All right, let's move on.
We fixed these images, but the background is too shiny.
It's almost hard to read the text.
So, we need to make it darker.
Take the brush.
Woah, woah.
Calm down.
You don't have to be a Bob Ross to use this, okay?
Just try to keep up.
Make your brush big and soft.
Reduce the flow to something like 5% and increase smooth.
Now, open a new layer on top of your background and start painting behind text, character, and things like that.
Okay, we're getting somewhere.
That background image looks nice, but I don't really like the color.
I said, but I don't really like the color.
How to change it?
Glad you asked.
Select the background.
Click image, adjustments, hue and saturation.
Here, you can choose a specific color to change or tweak the entire image.
Noise.
We're almost done, but I'm looking so unnatural over there.
I mean, the text above my head is shiny.
There should be some light reflections in reality, right?
Pick the selection tool.
Select the thing.
Create a new layer.
Take the brush.
Make it smaller.
Pick a nice color and brush over where the light is coming from.
Oh, don't forget to change the layer blending style to overlay.
If it doesn't work for your image, try other styles and colors, too.
After everything's done, I like to send it to my phone, play around with the colors in Lightroom.
So, it goes from this to this.
Before publishing the video, you need to test how it looks on YouTube homepage.
To do that, go to thumbsup.tv.
Add your title and thumbnail and see if it looks good.
If it does, you're good.
If not, go back to the drawing board again.
But, hopefully it does.
Here it is.
I know, it's probably not the best way to make a thumbnail, but that's just how I do it at the moment.
It will definitely change with time, but for now, this is all I do and it works for me.
So, it may work for you as well.
Photoshop, baby.

===== [GPoti7DZsME] How I Broke Youtube with 1 Video =====
3 weeks ago I uploaded my first video on this channel.
Today, it has 10% click-through rate, 50% retention, and over 10,000 views.
Now, it's time to show how you can do that yourself.
Making three videos, maybe I'm just making them on my phone and speaking to the camera, and uploading them to a new YouTube channel.
Aiming to make between 25 and 50 videos.
you have to make a certain amount of videos before you find your niche.
This is terrible advice.
I mean, it's the way to go if you know nothing about YouTube.
Don't get me wrong, but if you already have a channel, decent knowledge about editing videos, thumbnails, things like that, and you want to take the next step or start a new channel, publishing consistently or putting out a random video without any planning is the worst thing to do.
It would work 2 years ago since the algorithm wasn't pushing our first video anyways, but now, that just means wasting your biggest chance to grow.
You can completely blow up right in your first video, like this channel, and this, and this, and many more.
Well, how to do that?
What makes a video blow up?
Obviously, you can't use the regular way for this.
You need to choose the extreme way.
Although the YouTube algorithm has changed a lot, it still wants just two things.
Make people click and make people watch.
So, basically, you need a good video idea, good title and thumbnail, good editing, and a good story.
You must spend as much time as you can on each of these to make a video that connects with your audience.
First, you have to learn this one because what's the point of making people click if your video isn't worth watching for You need to master the skill of getting people's retention before getting them to click on your video.
So, let's get started.
I'm going to be honest.
Before starting this channel, I had no idea how to use a story in my videos.
I watched tons of explainers about that.
Everyone was talking about storytelling, how important it is, and all that.
But nobody was telling how I should actually use it in my video.
Every video just told, "Okay, if you want more retention, you should tell a story.
It must have a beginning, middle, and end." That's it.
But this formula is just too broad to actually use with no experience.
How am I going to start the story?
What should I include in the middle?
What about the ending?
But what if the storytelling is easier than you think?
So, I started searching for something else.
And one day I came across this graph.
This is the strategy that almost every successful channel is using.
The best part is, no matter your niche, you can use it in your video.
And it's simpler than it looks.
If you fill all the gaps, you get a perfect storyline for your video.
And if you master this technique, people will watch longer, and this number will go up.
So, I decided to give it a try, made this video, and published on this brand new channel.
Let me show you how it works.
Well, as you can see, it's a cycle.
The journey begins and ends on this side, called the ordinary world.
But to reach the end, you still go through a special world.
There are 12 points you need to pass along the way.
To explain each step, I'll take my favorite animation, How to Train Your Dragon, as an example.
But the same thing applies to almost all movies and YouTube videos you've seen.
If you give your full attention and apply this method in your next video, that will make people care about it and watch way longer.
Anyways, here's how this movie did it using that formula.
But you got to focus.
Status quo.
You see the Viking island, a community of warriors led by this guy, and our main character, Hiccup, a small Viking who struggles to fit in.
So, you should introduce your main character here.
Easy peasy, right?
Moving on.
Call to adventure.
A dragon called Night Fury attacks the Viking island.
Hiccup wants to prove himself to his dad and decides to hunt down that dragon.
You should briefly explain why you're doing this video and maybe show them what's to come.
Assistance.
But one day, he sees Night Fury in a forest and discovers that dragons aren't the monsters they believe.
It wouldn't be interesting to watch if your character knows everything from the beginning.
So, it's nice to add someone more experienced or a source of knowledge to the story for help.
Departure.
Hiccup decides to go against the Vikings and instead of fighting with them, he tries to understand dragons.
That's the breaking point of the journey where you step into the unknown, start the challenge, or whatever your video is about.
The adventure starts.
Trials.
He tries to convince his father and the rest of the Vikings who still see dragons as enemies, but they don't listen to him.
These are some barriers that separates you on your way to the video's main goal.
Just add some spice and action to the story.
Approach.
Here, you may show a teaser of the biggest threat in your video.
While hanging out with his friend, Hiccup discovers a gigantic dragon that controls all the other dragons.
Crisis.
The Vikings learn that and go for a fight with But they underestimate its power and almost lose it all.
This is the darkest point of the story.
Your character faces the biggest challenge and gets defeated so badly.
But then he finds something.
Hiccup realizes that they can't defeat this thing without joining the force between humans and dragons.
For your video, this treasure can be a new idea, a motivation, or support from a friend.
Result.
With that treasure, you overcome the crisis and achieve your goal for the video.
The Vikings use dragons to defeat the big guy.
Return.
After all that crazy adventure, it's time to return to the ordinary world.
You can either bring all that treasure with you or lose it all along the way.
In the movie, they managed to defeat the giant, but Hiccup is gets injured in the process.
New life.
As you can understand from the name, your character should have some kind of new life at this point.
Maybe he went from poor to rich, unhealthy to fit, and so on.
Hiccup survives, but the battle leaves him with a prosthetic leg.
The Vikings celebrate their victory, and dragons are accepted as part of their community.
Resolution.
Hiccup becomes a hero in the eyes of the Vikings.
They now understand the value of living with dragons.
Status quo.
Everyone adopts a new way of life where Vikings and dragons live side by side, leading to a brighter future for the island.
Well done.
Now, all you need to do is just fill the gaps yourself and come up with your own storyline for your next video.
I made a printable version of this chart to help you plan your stories even better.
It's completely free.
You can download it in description.
One last tip for filling the gaps is just ask yourself, what do you have in common with this guy?
Well, you're human, right?
Just like him.
You can leave your comfort zone, have an experience, and transform into a different person.
Of course, you probably don't fight with literal enemies, but every experience is worth a story.

===== [X1WJlNUJOgg] I Tried Youtube Shorts for 365 Days! =====
I've been running a faceless YouTube channel for over two years getting millions of views until I realized that I've been doing it all wrong there's a way to achieve these results in just a few months let me explain so the channel I'm talking about is called Zia where I make short and long form videos about Marvel movies in this video I'll focus on the short form content how you can get similar views as quickly as possible and show you the exact method I use to make them go viral thank you treat your channel as a brand decide what fonts and colors you'll use and keep them consistent throughout your channel to get started you're going to need a logo and a banner you can make them in any photo editor you want or if you're not a good designer you can make one using mid Journey like I do if you're posting randomly without choosing a clear topic sorry but you can't succeed on this platform so pick a niche you want make sure there's people out there who want to watch content from that Niche you can ask chatgpt to give you a list of the most popular niches on YouTube or go to Wikipedia search for list of hobbies and pick one that you're interested in then jump straight into step three you need to analyze other big channels in your Niche and see which type of content is doing well recently I did the same when I started out my channel and saw facts about movies doing pretty well in my Niche you probably saw at least one video like this did you know an Avengers end game do you know that in spider did you know your love and thunder so I found a bunch of interesting facts and explained them as simply as I could in my videos one thing I strongly recommend is don't overthink it spend as little time as you can on making each video especially when you're first starting out you're going to have a lot of time to improve your content but when you're in the beginning just publish your first video as soon as you can get comfortable making that style of content then choose one side of the video to improve next time for example focus on making better transitions in the next five videos then better subtitles better coloring better sound effects and so on it will definitely increase your video quality instead of trying to make everything perfect back to the channel after publishing consistently for about three weeks I made my first viral video foreign 10 shorts or so you need to go back and analyze data see which videos are doing well and which does this step may be a bit boring for some of you but it's definitely the most crucial one so don't skip that and the only important metrics you should check for YouTube shorts are view count retention and swipe rate but more importantly just re-watch your most viewed videos and try to understand what makes them different from the rest write them down in a viral recipe list and you can either try to tick as many boxes as you can in your next shorts or choose a few for each video and Implement them one by one I made that list for my viral short and saw the subtitles were shorter the scene was changing faster and I made a joke at the end that wasn't funny anyways I use this list for my next videos and I got two more viral shorts at the end of that month so in December 2022 I finally got monetized [Music] what worked in the past May no longer work today after replicating the same formula for the next month I realize the formula is not working anymore even though it was monetized the Channel's ad Revenue was less than twenty dollars a month obviously things weren't looking good even though I used the same techniques the views were getting lower in each video if you came across that hitch on your channel too it's the sign showing the golden formula is broken or needs a revision you need to repeat step three and four and add new points to your viral recipe list and when I did it again this time I saw better performing videos had a sound effect in the beginning like this some type of graphic that takes attention and most of them didn't have a voiceover they were just cool edits of recent movies even though I was a bit suspicious since it was easier to make this type of content I made more of them and they did really well the channel was getting more and more traction every day the ad Revenue went from 20 to over one hundred fifty dollars that month everything was great I was sure it would easily turn into thousands of dollars in a few months until one day I got an email from YouTube thank you it said some of your videos have been taken down due to a copyright notice we had to take down the following three videos from YouTube so basically my three edits about the movie spider-verse has been taken down by Sony and my channel got a copyright strike but that's not the worst part a few hours after that my channel got demonetized because of reused content it turns out my edits weren't edited enough to meet the fair use it was just the worst thing that could ever happen after the channel was starting to take off but that didn't stop me from posting I now went back to adding voiceovers to my videos repeated step three and four again to make my formula even better and will reapply the YouTube Partner program in a few weeks so if there's one principle you need to use on your channel after this video it's determination no matter how challenging it is just learn from each experience and try to improve find Solutions and don't lose your motivation [Music] thank you